---
title: Writing my first kernel module [2/n] [WIP]
author: ThorriSnep
date: 2021-12-10 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [linux, draft]
tags: [linux, kernel, draft]
---

In this post I want to go through how to get the kernel source-tree and how to build a kernel from it. For every one how doesn't know yet: the kernel source-tree is a directory witch contains all the source code needed to build a kernel.
Before we start I recommend you create a directory for your self to work in. e.g. `mkdir ~/kernelbld`

# Getting the kernel source-tree

I recommend to just get your kernel source-tree form ["The Linux Ternel Archives"](https://www.kernel.org/) unless you have a need for a specific build.

After downloading the source-tree you should have a compressed archive. Now go into the directory you created to work in and extract it with `tar -xf ~/Downloads/linux-{version}.tar.xz`

# What is in the source code?

Let's get an overview of the source tree:
```
arch   COPYING  Documentation  include  Kbuild   lib          Makefile  README   security  usr
block  CREDITS  drivers        init     Kconfig  LICENSES     mm        samples  sound     virt
certs  crypto   fs             ipc      kernel   MAINTAINERS  net       scripts  tools
```
To make it ease yer to get an overview lets split these files into 3 categories:

## Documentation

### README
This file should be your first point of contact. Here it is documented how to find and build the documentation for the kernel.

### MAINTAINERS
This file lists all maintainers of the different modules found in the kernel. If you want to submit a patch this file also provide a guide on how to do so.

### COPYING
This file provides the licenses under witch the kernel is released.

## Main Subsystems

### Makefile
This is the top-level make file that is used by the kernel build system (we will discuss that in more detail later) and the kernel modules.

### [WIP]...

# Lets build that thing

## Configure the kernel

How to configure the kernel is a science in its self, so we are going to discuss this later. For now the important thing is to know that we already have a lot of proven configs delivered with the kernel source tree.
We can find these in the source tree under `linux-{version}/arch/{arch}/configs`. You can copy the content of this file into the `.config` file in the root of the source tree and thereby get a good starting point for your config.

Further config can be done through a provided UI. To access this UI you have to make it with `make menuconfig`. In this menu you have several options. Here is a quick overview:

| **controlls** |  |
|---|---|
| `y` | includes |
| `n` | excludes |
| `m` | modularizes as LKM |
| `(...)` | requiers numeric input |


| **[.]** | not module capable |
|---|---|
| `[*]` | built-in |
| `[ ]` | excluded |


| **<.>** | module capable |
|---|---|
| `<*>` | built-in |
| `<M>` | module (LKM) |
| `< >` | excluded |

| **dependancys** |  |
|---|---|
| `{.}` | is a dependancy an needs to be LKM or built-in |
| `-*-` | is a dependancy an needs built-in |

## Bulid a simple uncompressed kernel

By now running `make all` in the source-tree root you will build `vmlinux` witch is an uncompressed image used for kernel debugging, `modules` witch are all modules we previously marked am a module in the config and `bzImage` witch is the compressed kernel image and the one used by the boot loader.

