---
title: Writing my first kernel module [1/n]
author: ThorriSnep
date: 2021-12-10 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [Linux]
tags: [Linux, kernel, theory]
---

Here I want to tell you about the motivation for developing kernel modules and what the hell even the kernel is:

# 1. What is a kernel?

Before even starting to write a kernel module it is probably important to know what a kernel even is.
In short the kernel is the part of the operating system that manages the hardware and facilitates the communication of the software that runs on the system with that hardware.
For us the most important job of the kernel will probably be memory management which entails the segregation of virtual memory into user space and kernel space. Why this is done we might go into at a later point.
Another important job of the kernel is the interaction with devices through devices drivers.


We can in general differentiate between 3 differentiate kernel structures:
## 1. Monolithic kernel
Here all features of the OS like the file system, scheduler, device drivers, memory management, basic and application inter process communication,... run in kernel mode.

## 2. Micro kernel
Here the features of the OS are split into a minimal kernel which only possesses basic functionality like the scheduler, memory management and basic IPC leaving a minimal amount running in kernel mode.
The rest of the functionality of the OS is handled by "servers" like a file system server or device drivers running in user mode.

## 3. Hybrid kernel
A hybrid kernel tries to combine the benefits of the monolithic and micro kernel.

# 2. What else is needed for a working Linux?

In addition to the kernel there are 2 other components needed for any working Linux system. These are:

## 1. The boot loader

The boot loader is a small program that is started after the computer is turned on. Its functionality is to initiate the RAM and the non-volatile memory so that the components of the OS can be loaded.

## 2. The root file system

The root file system is the point on which all other file systems are mounted and together with the root directory `/` it forms the basis for the hierarchical file tree. Not to be confused with the home directory of the root user `/root`.
